Driver sets a destination and car’s software calculates a route and starts the car on its way. A rotating, roof-mounted LIDAR sensor monitors a 60-meter range around the car and creates a dynamic 3-D map of the car’s current  environment. A sensor on the left rear wheel monitors sideways movement to detect the car’s position relative to the 3-D map. Radar systems in the front and rear bumpers calculate distances to obstacles. (Kubáňová and Kubasáková, 2018) Artificial intelligence software in the car is connected to all the sensors and has input from Google Street View and video cameras. The AI simulates human perceptual and decision -  making processes and controls driving systems such as steering and brakes. The car’s software consults Google Maps for advance notice of things like landmarks and traffic signs and lights. An override function is available to allow a human to take control of the vehicle. Individual vehicles may benefit from information obtained from other vehicles i n the vicinity, especially information relating to traffic congestion and safety hazards. Vehicular communication systems use vehicles and roadside units as the communicating nodes in a peer-to-peer network, providing each other with information. LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging): It is a remote sensing technology which measures distance by illuminating a target with a light beam and analyzes the reflected light. It is mounted on the roof of the vehicle on a cylindrical enclosure which rotates 360 degree and is the most important device in the Autonomous vehicles. Lidar consists of emitter, mirror and receiver. It maps a 3D structure of environment and location on the road in 360°. It uses laser, ultra violet, visible light or infrared light to image objects. The emitter sends out a laser beam that bounces off a mirror that is rotating along with the cylindrical housing at 10 revolutions per minute. (Chang et al., 2019, Yum et al., 2019) After bouncing off objects, the laser beam returns to the mirror and is bounced back towards the receiver, where it can be interpreted into data. This data is fed in to the computer which generates high precision 3D map of the surrounding environment (see fig. 2b). The vehicle can use the map to avoid objects. This accuracy of this map is in centimetres because the wavelength of light used is very small and is able to reflect of all types of surfaces and small objects. RADAR (Radio Detection and Ranging): This equipment can estimate the mutual velocity of the object and the vehicle, using the electro-magnetic waves. During the measurement it sends out a signal, than it waits until it is sent back. The frequency of the sent back signal is in case of mutual movement slightly changed (Doppler’s effect); therefore it is possible to instantly calculate the velocity of the forehead driving vehicle. (Šarkan et al., 2017)  The radar, compared to Lidar, uses a bigger wave length and lower signal energy. It is however not able to describe the shape of the scanned space. It can also have a problem with non-metal items, or items which have a specific shape. Most of the radars work in the range of approximately 77 GHz and the scanning beam is relatively directional. The radar scans the road in front of the vehicle up to approximately 200 meters distance. Some vehicles use two radars with different ranges. The Radar systems are installed on the front and rear bumper of the vehicle. Radar detects the surrounding environment and the central computer combines this result with that of the Lidar system. The radar system are used for detecting oncoming vehicles, their speed, other obstacles, for self parking, blind spot detection, lane-change assistance, adaptive cruise control, side impact warning, cross-traffic alert. etc. (Gestmair et al., 2019) ULTRASONIC SENSORS: These are mounted on various sides of the vehicle to detect objects very near the vehicle or measure the position of other vehicles during parking. These sensors provide parking assistance, collision warning, lane departure among other functions. VIDEO CAMERAS: They are installed at the top of the front glass, near the rear view mirror and build real-time 3D images of the road ahead. These are used to detect the traffic lights, traffic signs, unexpected things like animals or pedestrians, etc. They also detect different road signs like “STOP” signs, zebra crossings, sign boards etc. Video cameras also help in recognizing certain gestures which other sensors can’t comprehend like hand waving or traffic cones. (Yun et al., 2019)  GPS (Global Positioning System): It is a space-based satellite navigation system that provides current location and time information anywhere on earth where there is an unobstructed line of sight to four or more satellites. It is the basis of all the maps that vehicle uses while on the road. All satellites broadcast at the same two frequencies, 1.57542 GHz and 1.2276 GHz. GPS uses satellites to gather information about the current position of the vehicle. 6 Ján Ondruš et al. / Transportation Research Procedia 00 (2019) 000–000 GPS keeps the vehicle on its intended route with an accuracy of 30 centimetres. By using the GPS a map of the area is loaded into the central computer. With GPS other systems are used to determine the complete position.  INERTIAL MEASUREMENT UNIT (IMU): Data from GPS alone is less accurate. So, this data is combined with outputs from the IMU. IMU uses a combination of accelerometers, gyroscopes and magnetometers. IMU is an electronic device which measures and gives information about the vehicle’s velocity, orientation, gravitational forces etc. IMU helps GPS system to work when signals are unavailable such as in tunnels, bad weather conditions and when electromagnetic interference is present. (Yun et al., 2019)  CPU or Computer: All the data obtained from each and every sensor systems is fed to the central computer, which process this data at high speed. The central computer is a very powerful processing unit mounted on the inside of the vehicle. With the help of highly sophisticated software makes the required decision and sends the output to electro-mechanical units like automatic steering, throttle and breaking systems. This computer is also connected to the internet and GPS system to provide real time monitoring and updates. The next part describes our research of some specific parts of the autonomous vehicles. In particular we focused on testing the vehicles assistant systems geared on pedestrians’ detection with the possibility of the autonomous braking activation.  Since the extent of the article does not create room for analysing all case studies, we shall in this part describe only one demonstrative test. The vehicle under question was Volvo, driving approximately 48 km.h-1. A pedestrian reaching the speed of app. 4 km.h-1  entered the corridor of the vehicle from the left side. The movement synchronization of the vehicle and the pedestrian was established based on the precise simulation in the PC Crash 10.0.  For the measurements with the vehicle a dummy placed on the UFO – (Ultra flat overrunable platform, made by the company DSD Datentechnik) was used. (Schejbalová et al., 2013) UFO enabled a fully synchronized measurement process with the vehicle, based on the data received from the movement reconstruction, using the D_GPS vehicle location. (Schejbalová et al., 2012) An example of the assistance system intervention analysis in the vehicle is pictured on the figure 3 a–c.  - The experiment begins with vehicle passing the light gateway approximately 5s and 70m prior to the collision with the pedestrian. In this momentum the pedestrian is still standing. In the momentum of the vehicle passing the light gateway, the UFA control unit evaluates the right momentum for the UFA start (the pedestrian), based on the actual Volvo vehicle velocity.  - The vehicle moves on with the constant velocity of approximately 47 km.h-1  and in the time moment of approximately 4.3 s prior to the collision with the pedestrian the UFA starts to move with the acceleration 1 m.s -1. Fully synchronized and automated action reproduces the action of the real collision.   - Approximately 2 s and 19 m prior to the dummy movement corridor the driver is warned by means of acoustic-visual signal at the moment, when the pedestrian is approximately 0.7 m from the vehicle movement corridor. In this moment, the Volvo does not brake autonomously yet (see fig. 3a). - Approximately 0.8 s after the alarm activation the autonomous braking is activated approximately 13m from the dummy movement corridor (see fig. 3b). The vehicle brakes with the mean fully braking deceleration, approximately 10 m.s-2. During the activation of the autonomous braking the driver did not intervene in the vehicle drive. During the autonomous braking, the braking pedal declines to the floor as during the normal braking. - After approximately 2 seconds after the initial acoustic signal the collision between the vehicle and the pedestrian happens. The velocity during the collision (see fig. 3c) was approximately 12 km.h-1 (based on the acceleration sensor and GPS) as oppose to 48 km.h-1 during the real collision during which the driver did not happen to react to the pedestrian. Vehicle’s autonomous braking after the acoustic warning of the driver appeared in 63% case studies. The time interval between the initial acoustic and visual reaction of the system up to the very first moment of breaking stretched  from  0.1  to  0.8  seconds.  (Vertaľ  et  al.,  2014)  A  sole  case  identified  breaking  prior  to  the  preceding acoustic warning. The measurements have proved that the abrupt driver’s reaction controlling the vehicle upon the The analysis of the testing studies has proved that the system of pedestrians´ detection in Volvo V40 (produced in 2014) can autonomously stop the vehicle before the pedestrian at low speeds up to 30 km/h in case the pedestrian’s walk is sufficiently predictable and the system is prepared to monitor such pedestrian with nothing preventing the camera to follow the pedestrian. It has to be noted that the system can stop the slow speeding vehicle only if excluded is any and all abrupt change in speed or direction of the pedestrian walking into the road. At speeds exceeding 30 km/h, a significant reduction of vehicle’s speed before the actual clash with the pedestrian occurs, yet, by a maximum of c. 30 km/h compared to the vehicle’s speed at the time of the initial reaction to the system. The total summary of the speed reduction resulting from the autonomous intervention of the vehicle is shown in table 1.In the near future, our professional ambition and conduct will increasingly be directed towards vehicles furnished with the state of the art and sophisticated equipment. Such systems are aimed to ease and facilitate the drive, yet, they might be the cause of complication upon professional investigation of the accident. Autonomous vehicles are still a developing technology. A large number of companies and researchers have speculated about future developments and the possible effects of the vehicles. The following section describes the various visions of vehicle producers regarding the future of autonomous vehicles:  By 2020, Google autonomous vehicle project head's goal is  to have all outstanding problems with the autonomous vehicle resolved.  - By 2020, Volvo envisages having vehicles in which passengers would be immune from injuries. - By 2020, Daimler and Ford, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, Nissan and BMW all expect to sell autonomous vehicles. - By 2020, GM, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, Nissan, BMW, Renault, Tesla and Google all expect to sell vehicles that can drive themselves at least part of the time. (Level 3)  - By 2024, Jaguar, Daimler and Ford expect to release an autonomous vehicle. Ford predicts it will have the first mass market autonomous vehicle, but released no target date. - By 2025, most new GM vehicles will have automated driving functions as well as vehicle-to-vehicle communication technology. - By 2035, Navigant Research forecasts that autonomous vehicles will gradually gain traction in the market over the coming two decades and by 2035, sales of autonomous vehicles will reach 95.4 million annually, representing 75% of all light-duty vehicle sales. - By 2040, expert members of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) have estimated that up to 75% of all vehicles will be autonomous. (Kalašová et al., 2018) 